<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
      <hgroup>
        <h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">XXV</h2>
	  		<p epub:type="title">Erma and an assassin</p>
      </hgroup>
			<p>The purpose of Ellen Sanders was by no means altered by the defeat of her plans; to the contrary, she was rendered the more determined. She saw that there was no prospect of estranging Astral from Erma; in fact, no prospect of drawing him into a discussion of the subject. She decided to address her attention to Erma. Her knowledge of Erma led her to the firm conclusion that it was needless to attempt the use of argument in her case. Yet she must be gotten out of the way, was Ellen’s unalterable determination. Aside from the fact that she desired Astral for her husband, she possessed no love for Erma, who had been an object of contempt ever since the moment she had entered service.</p>
			<p>Self-interest and hatred are two powerful forces when operating in the bosom of a woman rankling with disappointment. Ellen determined upon Erma’s murder. When Ellen was a very young child, her parents had as a neighbor a widow whose name was Corella Ross, the mother of seven children, the oldest of whom was called Sam. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Ross went about doing housework for various white families and left her children at home to take care of themselves as best they might. Sam, being the oldest, roamed the city at will, returning in time to be on hand at night when his mother arrived, contriving by bits of candy and direful threatening to maintain the silence of his little brothers and sisters on the subject of his meanderings. Thus left to himself, he became a youth of vicious character. But he was ever fond of Ellen, and carried his affections with him in undiminished force in his downward drift.</p>
			<p>Ellen decided upon employing Sam Ross to put Erma out of her way. One dark night, soon after the incidents described in our last chapter, Ellen thickly veiled her face, threw a large shawl about herself so as to conceal her form, and thus attired, made her way to a section of the town known as “Hell’s Half Acre.” This settlement contained numerous saloons, all conducted by white men and sustained by Negroes.</p>
			<p>Knowing of the extraordinary value that a certain class of Negroes attached to social contact with white men, some white saloon keepers utilized this sentiment to foster their business. By a pat on the shoulder, a friendly tussle, an exchange of jokes, or some such mark of fellowship, numbers of the more ignorant Negroes were held in bondage to these resorts. Sam Ross was one of these victims, and Ellen is on her way to his favorite resort in the hope of finding him there. When she reaches the place she opens the door a little to see if Sam is in there. There he was in the middle of the floor, dancing what is known as the clog dance, keeping time to the music of a fiddle in the hands of another Negro perched upon an empty whiskey barrel in the corner. Sam’s dancing was eliciting much applause from the motley crowd of debauchees who were present in great numbers.</p>
			<p>“Sam!” called Ellen.</p>
			<p>Sam danced around until he faced the door, and nodded to the veiled face that showed itself therein.</p>
			<p>“Sam, I would like to see you,” said Ellen.</p>
			<p>Much to the delectation of the spectators, Sam danced all the way to the door, performing some of his most notable feats. Reaching the door, he bowed profoundly, and stepped out, amid shouts of approval from his fellows.</p>
			<p>The appearance of a woman for Sam did not excite any unusual attention, such occurrences in the case of others being very frequent.</p>
			<p>“Sam,” said Ellen, “come with me; I want you to do me a kindness.”</p>
			<p>“Is that you, Ellen! Whut on earth brung you here?” said Sam in great astonishment.</p>
			<p>“I have an enemy, Sam, that is seeking to do me great injury, and I need your help.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Ellen; I’m your man. I’ll kill any nigger that does you harm,” said Sam.</p>
			<p>“Don’t say that, Sam, unless you mean it,” said Ellen.</p>
			<p>“Try me,” was Sam’s laconic response.</p>
			<p>“Well, we’ll see. Sam, my enemy is a woman.”</p>
			<p>“A woman! I don’t like the idea of killing a woman, but if you say so, I’ll do it. I’ve done many a shady thing, but I ain’t come to that yet.”</p>
			<p>“I thought you would back out, Sam.”</p>
			<p>“Back out! who said I’d back out? Not this chap. Of course, I’ll kill the gal; but a fellow has got a little conscience, and has to feel bad a little bit. Who is she?”</p>
			<p>“Come with me. I will show you where she lives, and stand there until you are through. There is no one in the room with her, and you are not in the slightest danger.” So saying, she led the way until at length they arrived at Erma’s house. After assuring themselves that there was no one else near, they entered the yard, and very stealthily approached the window to Erma’s room.</p>
			<p>Sam had had previous experience in housebreaking and soon had the blinds removed and an opening made in the window. He noiselessly clambered into Erma’s room, having his long, keen knife in his hand. The lamp was dimly burning on a stand near the head of the bed. By the side of the lamp was a bouquet of beautiful flowers which Astral had given Erma that evening, and which she had placed where she could see them in the night if she should awake. She also desired that they should be the first object on which her eyes should fall on awaking the next day.</p>
			<p>Sam drew near the bed with uplifted knife.</p>
			<p>There Erma lay in all her beauty, a lovely smile upon her face, even in her sleep. Her hair was lying carelessly about her brow, and caused her to present the appearance of wild loveliness.</p>
			<p>Sam halted, so beautiful was the image before him. His arm descended to his side, and he continued to gaze. He said to himself, “If I kill that girl, it will have to be with my eyes shut.” He closes his eyes and creeps closer to the bedside. He lifts his hand again to strike, and opens his eyes to note the spot where a blow delivered would reach her heart. Again Erma’s beauty charms him.</p>
			<p>Sam mutters to himself, “Ellen told me she wanted me to kill a woman, and, dad gum it, this is an angel.” So saying, he turned around and got back out of the window.</p>
			<p>“Is she dead?” asked Ellen, eagerly.</p>
			<p>“Naw, dad gum it, she ain’t dead. And another thing, if ever any harm befalls that girl, I’ll tell about this night’s work, and I’ll kill you besides.” So saying, he walked away, carrying in his mind a picture of the beautiful Erma.</p>
			<p>Ellen, thoroughly dejected and full of fear as to the revelations that Sam might make, returned to her home.</p>
			<p>When, some weeks later, word was brought to her that Erma Wysong had passed away, and that it was happy Erma <i>Herndon</i> now; when word came that Astral Herndon had declared himself in favor of building a monument to the skies in honor of Cupid for having brought him so glorious a prize⁠—when these facts were brought to her ladyship, Ellen Sanders, she remembered Sam Ross⁠—and said nothing.</p>
			<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
