<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV: Opposing the Wedding</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Opposing the Wedding</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>News of the betrothal of Astral and Erma was not slow in finding its way through the city, as society is well supplied with couriers that delight to inform mankind whenever two individuals conclude to form a home, the unit of civilization. On a matter of such fundamental importance, society reserves the right to freely express its opinion.</p>
			<p>The comment on the proposed marriage was quite varied in character. As to the worthiness of the two contracting parties all were agreed, but from that point onward there was much divergence of opinion. Astral’s complexion was not as light as that of Erma, so some were of the opinion that she was making a slight mistake on that score.</p>
			<p>Astral was criticised by some on the score that he had chosen a wife of mixed blood when there were so many girls in the city of pure Negro extraction. Others insisted that he had acted wisely, on the theory that each succeeding generation should be as far removed as possible from the original color which had so many ills chargeable to it. Still another group was found that bitterly opposed the union on the ground that class distinctions were highly essential to the welfare of the race, which distinctions Astral’s course was calculated to obliterate, in that he, who was to earn his livelihood by mental exertion, was to marry a girl who had deserted that pathway and resorted to menial labor.</p>
			<p>Opposed to these were those who agreed with Burns in his teaching’s, to the effect that</p>
			<div class="poem">
				<div class="stanza">
					<span class="i0">“Rank is but the guinea’s stamp;<br/></span>
					<span class="i0">A man’s the gowd for a’ that.”<br/></span>
				</div>
			</div>
			<p>Thus the conflict of sentiment raged, eventuating in no action, however, save in the case which we are now about to record.</p>
			<p>Ellen Sanders, true to her conception of ladyship, had declined all employment that involved physical labor. Time after time she had made attempts to be elected teacher in the city schools, but someone else of the great number of applicants had always secured the prize. Repeated failure had somewhat dampened her hope, but had not altered her determination to “cling to her ladyship to the last.” Of late she had been turning her attention to the subject of marriage as a possible solution. One by one the professional men of the city had been favored with her smiles, but all to no avail thus far, though her smiles had grown to have the appearance of artificiality from such faithful and constant service. There was one last string to her bow, upon which she relied to bring her success; and as her case was growing desperate, she had decided not to allow mere formalities to stand in her way.</p>
			<p>The hope that had survived, had Astral for its basis. She had been his schoolmate, had received some slight attention from him in those days, and now felt that the friendship of childhood could be easily transformed into love. She had not known of Astral’s attachment for Erma and consequently apprehended no opposition from that source. Imagine her chagrin and dismay when the news that Astral and Erma were to wed reached her ears. The first effect was to rob her of all inclination to act, but this feeling of stupefaction was succeeded by a grim determination to win at all hazards. Her first move was to bring influences to bear on Astral to dissuade him from the contemplated step. In the city there were a number of young men who could not be said to follow any vocation, who were without visible means of support, and yet dressed well and lived in idleness. There was much speculation as to how they were maintained, but no positive evidence on hand. There was a well-defined suspicion to the effect that they received their meals through the rear windows of kitchens where Negro girls were in service to white people, and their clothes, which were good but never new, were supposed to come from the same source. As to where they lodged, it would perhaps not be well to state, though here and there rumors were afloat to the effect that they were seen jumping over back fences into alleyways in the early hours of the morning. Though these social Melchizedeks were involved in much mystery they were greatly in evidence and ready for any scheme that seemed to promise any money, provided always and only that no physical exertion was involved.</p>
			<p>Such a personage was E. Moses Smith, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, and to him Ellen Sanders now resorts. He readily accepts the money which Ellen brings him and agrees to undertake the work of influencing Astral against Erma. On divers occasions he intrudes himself in Astral’s company, seeking to win his friendship.</p>
			<p>Astral is now pleased with all the world because he has Erma’s love, and E. Moses Smith <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, very naturally fell into the mistake of supposing himself deeper in his graces than he really was, so cordially was Astral receiving him. Eventually he concluded that he was far enough advanced in Astral’s favor to begin the task assigned him. He had charge of an office consisting of two rooms, which office a white lawyer, then on a tour of Europe, had committed to his care. To this office he invited Astral, with a view to approaching him on the subject of his contemplated marriage.</p>
			<p>Ellen Sanders being informed of the plan begged to be allowed to occupy the rear room so that she might overhear the conversation and know how to gauge her hopes.</p>
			<p>At the appointed hour Astral stepped in and was received in a most effusive manner by the young man. Ellen’s eye was to the keyhole and her heart gave a bound as she looked upon Astral’s handsome face and noble form.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Herndon,” he began after the usual exchange of greetings, “you are a much discussed man in our town.”</p>
			<p>Astral understood the reference to be to his approaching marriage and smiled his thanks.</p>
			<p>Ellen saw the smile and grew faint; it betokened so much happiness in the heart of Astral. “Ah me!” she sighed.</p>
			<p>The young man resumed, “Never in years has a proposed marriage been so much discussed as this one.”</p>
			<p>“The people do me a signal honor, I am sure,” was Astral’s reply.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but not in the way that you suppose, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Herndon,” was his response.</p>
			<p>“The comment is <i>unfavorable</i> to me, then, I presume,” Astral remarked.</p>
			<p>The young man felt that his time had arrived so he reared back in his chair and closed his eyes preparatory to the delivery of his speech which Ellen had helped him to compose.</p>
			<p>“Yes, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Herndon, the comment is decidedly against you. Society confers upon all men certain blessings otherwise unattainable. What would any man’s life be worth without the blessings which society confers! In return for these blessings society establishes certain laws and customs which all are expected to obey.”</p>
			<p>Here he slightly opened his eyes to see the effect his argument was having on Astral. Noting nothing decisive he closed them again.</p>
			<p>Ellen murmured to herself, “Good! Go on!”</p>
			<p>The young man resumed, “Some of its requirements society enacts into laws and compels obedience thereto. Others are left to the influence of public sentiment. Every true member of a community, I hold, is in duty bound to yield to every demand of enlightened public sentiment.”</p>
			<p>A scowl now appeared on Astral’s face as he perceived the drift of his remarks, but the latters’ eyes being closed, he did not see it.</p>
			<p>The young man continues, “Especially is this true on the question of matrimony, as from the home, society draws material for its construction. My opinion is that no man should enter a marriage contract over the vigorous protest of society.”</p>
			<p>Astral was now a very angry man and none too safe to deal with.</p>
			<p>Ellen saw that there was danger ahead and was anxious for E. Moses Smith, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, to open his eyes so that he might take note of the gathering storm and seek for shelter by a change of course. She had no means of communicating her fears without discovering her own presence, so the young man remained unwarned.</p>
			<p>Continuing, he said, “You, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Herndon, are a very worthy man, but Erma Wysong⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Say it, you cur!” thundered Astral, rising and drawing himself to his full height, wrathful indignation depicted on every feature.</p>
			<p>The astounded E. Moses Smith, <abbr>Esq.</abbr>, opened wide his eyes and one glance at Astral explained the situation, whereupon in great terror, he fled precipitately to the room in the rear, Ellen having opened the door to readily receive him. Having locked the door, he thought himself safe, and proceeded to conclude his remarks through the keyhole.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Herndon, you are unduly angry, sir. I was not going to say anything derogatory of Erma Wysong, further than that she had been a service girl and as a consequence, was unworthy of so grand a man as yourself.”</p>
			<p>When Astral heard the word unworthy applied to Erma he proceeded to the door and with one kick wrested it from its hinges. The young man, who had seen him approaching, had jumped behind Ellen, with a view to keeping her between the irate Astral and himself. But the frightened girl tore herself from his grasp and ran through the aperture, a thick veil concealing her identity. When Astral entered the room in quest of the young man he found society’s advocate coiled on the floor, making oft repeated pleas for mercy, interspersed with cries of fire, murder, robber, and such other words as, in his frenzy, he thought would bring others to the scene. Astral looked down upon him in contempt and strode out of the room, leaving him unharmed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
