<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
      <hgroup>
        <h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
	  		<p epub:type="title">He narrowly escaped</p>
      </hgroup>
			<p>Fire! fire!! fire!!! Lurid flames leaping in their mad fury through the roof of a huge frame church building situated on Laurel Street had attracted the attention of a Negro woman who had a basket of clothes on her head. Putting the basket of clothes down on the sidewalk and expanding her chest, she had thrown her shoulders back and was screaming as fast and as loudly as she could; for it was the edifice of the church of which she was a member that was afire. She was a poor, unlettered woman, but next to God, she loved her church. Having to labor incessantly from before daylight Monday morning until late Saturday night, and having neither a nice dwelling nor costly dresses, about her only pleasure was going to church on Sunday. She felt that here she heard directly from God out of that mysterious book on the stand, doubly dear to her, being shrouded in mystery and containing glowing promises of coming joys. Imagine then the horror, excitement, pathos, despair, astonishment that this Negro woman threw into her screams on that midday. No one who heard those screams ever forgot them. Soon the street was thronged with excited spectators. As fast as the colored “sisters” came in sight of the burning building they would break forth into loud piercing screams.</p>
			<p>“Good Laws a mussy, de Lawd am lettin’ de house ub God burn up,” said one, her hands akimbo on her hips, her eyes bleared, her very soul lost in amazement at such a sight.</p>
			<p>“My Lawd, judgment muss shuah dun cum. You had better pray, sinners!” shouted another over and over again in a loud voice.</p>
			<p>The “sister” who had first screamed ran to the front door and threw herself violently against it. It gave way and she dashed down the aisle. She thought she saw a long tail coat disappearing out of a rear window. She had no time to think of that, however. Her mind was intent on getting the pulpit Bible. She snatched this from the altar and started for the door. A burning rafter fell, barely missing her head and striking her on the shoulder, dislocating her arm. The Bible was knocked out of her hands. One of the firemen who had now arrived on the scene, hearing that a woman was in the burning building ran in, in order to rescue her. He caught her by the dislocated arm and was pulling her along, giving her excruciating pain. She said to the fireman, “Lemme go. Git de Bible. Save de Wurd ub God. Save de Wurd.”</p>
			<p>“The Wurd be blanked,” said the irate fireman. “Come along or you will burn up, old woman.” The oath from the lips of the fireman erased every thought of the fire from her mind. She forgot the Bible. Her excitement was all gone. She was wondering to herself how a human being could speak so slightly about the Bible.</p>
			<p>“Dese white folks is er sight. I kain’t see how dey ken eber ’speck to git ter hebun. Dat feller done ’saulted my rebrunce fur de Bible. Dey is enuf ter spile eny body’s ’ligion. Ef niggers stay heah in dis country wid dese cole hearted white folks we woan hab no ’ligion ’tall.” Such were her inward musings, and that too, without a knowledge of the higher critics. The fire had no more interest for that “sister.” She was thinking of that other and hotter fire sure, as she thought, to get the irreverent fireman who could “cuss a Bible in a burnin’ church.”</p>
			<p>The crowd swelled, the “sisters” screamed, the fire raged, the firemen worked valiantly but all to no avail. The flames, glad at being turned loose in the world once more, refused to release their grasp and insisted on licking up into their million insatiable little mouths every piece of timber. Just before the walls crumbled <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D. S., came dashing into the crowd. The “sisters” all gathered around the parson for he was their “parster.” He put his handkerchief to his eyes as though the sight was too sad to behold. With his face buried in his handkerchief, his lips were moving, giving voice to the sentiments of his heart. “Thank God! Thank God! or the devil even!!”</p>
			<p>The excitement over, the crowd dwindled down, leaving the ashes to the parson and the “sisters,” the brethren being at their work.</p>
			<p>“Elder Nerve, look at de bottom ub yer pants’ leg.” The parson looked down and saw a large rent made in his pants and a widespread stain.</p>
			<p>“Dat surely is kerosene oil,” said another “sister.”</p>
			<p>Parson Nerve now exhibited an unwonted degree of confusion. The “sisters” attributed it, however, to the embarrassment of the parson at having his spick and span attire disarranged by a snag and an oil stain.</p>
			<p>“Whar did you git it?” said another “sister,” stooping to look at it.</p>
			<p>“Huh, ah,-I-could-not-say,-ay,-Sister Jones,” said the parson, again on his dignity.</p>
			<p>“Whar wuz you wen our house got kotched er fire, Elder?” The parson’s dignity suffered a considerable collapse again. “Huh!-Ah! Huh,-huh,-let- me-see. Why,-sister,-I-am-so troubled-about-our-house-of-worship-that my-memory-is-sort-of-affected-that-quick. Huh!-ah!-huh! Don’t-think- about-me,-sisters, think-of-your-church! What-are-we-to-do-about that?” Much to Parson Nerve’s relief the “sisters” turned to the discussion of that theme, the greatest on earth to them. They began thus early to lay plans for their future.</p>
			<p>Parson Nerve soon found a way of absenting himself from the group and repaired to his study where he secluded himself. “Ha!-ha! ha!” laughed he in his deep resounding voice. “I-have-got-them-on-the-hip-now. I’ve-got them,-ha!-ha!-ha! I-have-been-a-sly-slick-duck, sure. There- are-now-forty-four-fine-brick churches-owned-by-Negroes-in-this-city. They are-very-fine,-but-mine-shall-be-finer,-finer,-finer, ha!-ha!-ha! I-have-been-a-slick-duck. The other-preachers-thought-I-couldn’t-build,- but-I was-waiting-until-the-last-of-them-built,-so-I could-beat-them-all. Oh!-I-knew-I-would-get old-Spalding. I-will-show-him-what-Old-Man Nerve-can-do. Won’t-he-rave-when-he-sees-my churchgoing-up-finer-than- his? He-beats-the balance,-but-I’ll-beat-him. Not-only-will-I-beat the- niggers, but-I-shall-also-beat-the-white-folks. I-shall-then-have-the- finest-church-house-in-the city,-white-or-colored. Ninety-thousand-dollars will-be-the-cost. Then,-Good-God! Then-I’ll get-my-D.-D. Not-a-nigger- college-in-the-world will-refuse-me-D.-D.,-when-I-finish-a-building that- costs-that-much. Oh,-I-knew-I-would-get old-Spalding. He-is-only-a-B.-D. But-I-will-be a-D.-D.,-<abbr>Rev.</abbr>-Josiah-Nerve,-D.-D. No-more-‘S.’ Well,-I- deserve-it. Few-men-would-have-had the-grace-to-wait-until-all-the-other- chaps-were done. And,-then,-think-of-the-risk-I-ran-in-getting-that-old- house-out-of-the-way. Let-me-look at-that-statute-again.”</p>
			<p>Going to his desk the parson opened a code of criminal laws and turned to the desired place. “Arson-from-two-to-twenty-years-in-the penitentiary,-two-to-twenty,-two-to-twenty. Now,-who-on-earth-would-say- that-a-man who-would-run-such-a-risk-fora-house-for God-ought-not-to- have-D.-D.,-D.-D.,-D.-D., <abbr>Rev.</abbr>-Josiah-Nerve,-D.-D.</p>
			<p>“Come in,” said Parson Nerve, in response to a knock at his study door.</p>
			<p>A policeman stepped into the parson’s study. The parson dropped into a chair quickly and hid his torn pants’ leg behind the other, that grin of his entirely gone for once. The policeman failed to observe the parson’s hiding one leg behind the other. He began, “Parson, somebody burned your church house down. We know that you and your people are much grieved about it and would like to apprehend the scoundrel. I came to tell you that we are on his track.” The parson looked at the policeman but could not speak. He saw a gulf opening its yawning jaws to receive him and he could not even hollow. He stole a glance at the open code.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” continued the policeman, “we shall get him before night. They are measuring his tracks now from the rear window of the church out of which someone caught a glimpse of him jumping. A bloodhound from a near by city will be brought over on the five train and he will certainly run him down.” The policeman looked over to <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve to hear him express sentiments of gratification at the vigilance of the police and the bright prospect of the early capture of the criminal. The <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve looked at the policeman stupidly, frozen with fear.</p>
			<p>“See here!” said the policeman, drawing a bit of torn cloth from his vest pocket and holding it up to view. “This is a piece of his pants’ leg. When he is found this will identify him beyond question. We found this hanging to a nail in a fence by which he must have run in making his escape.” <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve neither spoke nor moved. He pressed the torn pants’ leg harder against its protector.</p>
			<p>The policeman, anxious to secure some expression of elation from <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, and disappointed that he had not thus far secured such, said, “From the way the people are talking, if the scamp is caught he will be lynched. The white people like you and your church. Yours is the only congregation in town that has not joined the craze to have churches finer than those of the white people. Thus they think well of you and are sorry for your misfortune. I am a policeman sworn to uphold the majesty of the law, but I will join a mob to help lynch the scoundrel that burned your church down. Well, I see you are too grieved to discuss the matter. Good day, parson,” said the policeman, rising to go.</p>
			<p><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve felt a little strength return and he managed to say to the policeman, in a husky tone, “Good day,” and <i>sotto voce</i>, “Good by.” The policeman walked away musing to himself, “Surely niggers must have an immense amount of religion or of something. Now, that darkey preacher is so grieved about that plaguy barn, that he can’t talk.”</p>
			<p>While the policeman was thus musing as he walked along, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve was packing a valise. In the middle of that afternoon, some farmers not far distant from the city, saw a man wearing a long tail coat, which was slapping at the wind, his hat in one hand and a valise in the other, making for the woods at a rapid rate. <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D. S., was not heard from in Richmond again. Perhaps he at last succeeded in dropping the despised “S,” and lost his identity in the numerous throng of the veneered.</p>
			<p>The tragic, not the humorous in the experiences of <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, appealed to Erma. Had she even then a premonition that she, too, had been singled out by the wheels of the Juggernaut; that she, too, was to be the epitome of all that was tragic in the attempts of the Negro and Anglo-Saxon to journey side by side on the terms elected?</p>
			<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
