<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
      <hgroup>
        <h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</h2>
        <p epub:type="title"><abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D. S.</p>
      </hgroup>
			<p>Erma Wysong was sitting in her own home on the following evening (her employers, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Turner and daughter, having left the city for a vacation of a few days duration), lost in a reverie, musing over her experience on the Sunday just gone, when she heard a sort of hesitating knock at her door. She went to the door, opened it, and found standing before her a very dark man, low of stature, of medium size, dressed in a “Prince Albert” coat and vest that had “seen better days.” His bow legs were encased in a pair of linen breeches that desired to pass for white, and were very much wrinkled. A broad grin, that showed nearly all of his teeth and well nigh shut up his small eyes, was upon his face. He opened his eyes slowly to take a full look at Erma, and the grin depreciated in value about fifty percent (if its value depended upon its size). Satisfied with the result of his inspection, the grin, like the cat, came back, and the eyes again took up their abode in the “partial eclipse.” After grinning at Erma a length of time sufficient, as he thought, to impress her with his geniality, he was ready to announce himself.</p>
			<p>“Huh,” he grunted; “you-don’t-know-me, do-you?” said he in the deep guttural, rolling tone so generally affected by a certain class of Negro preachers.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes,” replied Erma, “I have heard you preach on several occasions.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,” he grunted again. With a yet broader grin than his greeting one, he asked, in that tone which was never known to forsake him (his wife states that he even snores in that tone), “What-is-my-name?”</p>
			<p>“Really, I have forgotten that.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,” he grunted, “my-name-is-<abbr>Rev.</abbr>-Josiah-Nerve,-D.-D.-S.” His grin increased in anticipation of the effect the information just imparted was to produce.</p>
			<p>“Will you not come in, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve?”</p>
			<p>“Huh,” said <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, still grinning broadly and walking in, lifting his feet in his walk a little higher than do ordinary mortals.</p>
			<p>“Take a seat, please.”</p>
			<p>He sat down, taking infinite pains, with all due deliberation, to arrange his coat tails so that he would not rumple them as his predecessor in the ownership of them had already evidently done overmuch. Holding his hat in his hand, he sat staring at Erma, alternately lessening his grin so as to look, and his look so as to grin, as his grin ordinarily closed his eyes nearly, and as a full look materially reduced his grin. His white teeth and red gums managed to keep in sight, however, during the fiercest of the fight between the grin and the look. Having allowed sufficient time for his amiability to become thoroughly apparent through these facial gymnastics, he began:</p>
			<p>“Miss-Wysong,-I-have-come-to-sympathize-with-you, huh.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve. On account of what am I to be favored with your sympathy?”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-on-account-of-what-them-blue-vein, educated-niggers-did-to-you-yesterday.”</p>
			<p>“Let me understand you, please.”</p>
			<p>“Huh. In-that-church-out-of-which-you were-put-yesterday,-all-of-the- mulattoes, whose-skins-are-such-that-their-blue-blood shows,-have- decided-to-form-an-aristocracy. If you-are-yellow-and-don’t-work-any- with-your hands,-you-are-all-right. That-is-condition number-one. If- you-are-black-and-don’t-work any-with-your-hands-and-are-smarter-than-the whole-lot-of-them-blue-veiners-put-together, you-will-be-accepted-until- they-get-something on-you. That-is-condition-number-two. You were-light- enough-for-them,-but-you-worked with-your-hands. I-did-not-work-with-my hands,-but-I-was-not-smart-enough. So,-being-black,-they-put-me-out.”</p>
			<p>“Put you out?” queried Erma.</p>
			<p>“Huh,-yes,-miss. Before-you-was-born,-I was-pastor-of-that-church. That-blue-veined crowd-dumped-me,-huh.”</p>
			<p>“I fear that you are prejudiced against them and judge them harshly,” interposed Erma. “Surely a people who have been so sorely oppressed on account of their color would not dream of drawing the color line among themselves.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-huh,-miss,-you-don’t-know. The color-line-is-drawn-tighter-within- the-race than-ever-it-was-on-the-outside,-and-the-original-bony-fidy (bona fide)-members-of-the-race don’t-draw-the-line. It-is-the-first- time-that-I ever-knew-of-a-people-who-slipped-into-a-race through-a-back- door-sitting-on-the-front-piazza and-hollowing-to-the-honest-born-chaps- to-stay in-the-kitchen. Well,-it-is-like-a-prison,-I-suppose. The-rascal- who-gets-in-there-for-committing-the-worst-crime-is-the-leader-and-hero of-the-prison.</p>
			<p>“I am sure that you are sour over some unpleasant experiences with certain light-skinned people, and it has so warped your judgment that you pass a severe sentence upon the entire class, which is manifestly unjust. Pardon me, but I would much prefer the discussion of some other topic.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-excuse-me-then. Huh,-both-of-us having-been-putout-by-that-blue- vein-crowd, I-had-a-fellow-feeling. Miss-Wysong,-I-want your-aid-in-a- little-matter.”</p>
			<p>“I shall be pleased to serve you in any way that I can.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-thank-you,-miss. My-congregation-is made-up-of-all-the-shouting- sisters-from-all the-other-churches,-who-have-been-driven-away by- manuscripts,-which-things-they-hate-worse than-the-Apostle-Peter-hated- the-rooster-that crowed-and-told-on-him. I-preach-to-them-in-the good- old-time-way. I-have-never-quit-spreading a-good-supply-of-the-gravy-of- feeling-on-the gospel-biscuits-which-I-hand-down-every-Sabbath. Because- I-won’t-grieve-the-Spirit-by setting-him-aside-fora-manuscript,-the- other preachers-are-mad-at-me,-and-won’t-let-me-get D.-D.,-which-my- people-want-me-to-have.”</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, but I understood you to say that you were the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D.-D.-S.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-you-don’t-understand;⁠—D.-D.-S.-is-not D.-D.,-as-I-shall-presently- make-plain. My-people kept-on-growling-about-my-not-having-a-title. Of- course,-I-had-no-learning. I-can-only-talk straight-by-calling-one-word- at-a-time,-as-you must-have-noticed-already,-and-even-at-that-it is-as- much-as-I-can-do-to-keep-my-tongue-from twisting-back-to-the-old-time- nigger-dialect which-I-spoke-for-thirty-years,-with-much-more pleasure- than-I-do-this. My-people-kept-on growling,-and-asking-me-if-there-was- nothing they-could-do. One-day-when-a-number-of-us preachers-were- visiting-the-High-School,-the teacher-asked-a-little-girl-to-conjugate- the-verb <i>to-be</i>-in-Latin,-showing-off-before-us. She-began-like-this: “<i>Sum,-es,-est</i>.” I-am-good-at catching-on,-but-to-be-sure,-I-stood- around-the street-corner,-near-this-little-girl’s-home-and waited- until-she-came-from-school,-when-I asked-her-what-did-<i>sum</i>-mean. She- said-it-was the-Latin-verb-<i>to be</i>. I-then-called-my-church together,-and-told-them-that-there-was-a-title that-they-could-confer- upon-me. By-a-unanimous vote,-my-church-conferred-upon-me-the-degree of- D.-D.-S. That-is-D.D., <i>-to-be</i>. Now-I-often think-how-true- that-Scripture-is-which-says, “A little-child-shall-lead-them.”“</p>
			<p>Erma could not repress a smile of amusement at the novel and ingenious way in which the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve came in possession of the coveted title.</p>
			<p>“Huh,” continued the parson, “I-have-a-fine plan-for-getting-my-full- honors. You-can-help me. I-want-to-have-the-‘S.’-dropped.”</p>
			<p>“I am sure you do not expect me to give you the degree?”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-no-no. But-you-can-teach-me-English grammar,-geography,-and-the- alphabets-of-the Greek,-Latin-and-Hebrew-languages. With these-things,-I- can-wear-my-degree-with-dignity when-it-comes. I-have-got-my-plan-laid- to-bring it. You-see,-I-know-what-it-takes-to-scoop-a D.D.-from-the-very- best-nigger-colleges. I-know one-preacher-who-got-his-degree-by-buying-a barrel-of-salt-herrings-fora-nigger-college,-and sat-on-the-barrel-in- the-front-yard,-threatening to-take-the-barrel-of-herrings-home-in-case- the trustees-did-not-give-him-the-degree. My-plans are-more-dignified- than-that. I’ve-got-them laid-and-I-want-you-to-help-me-to-be-prepared for-my-coming-honor.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve, I am very sorry to be compelled to tell you that your ambitions are in the wrong direction. The mere attaching to yourself the degree will not make you the equal of the white preachers whom you are seeking to imitate. For one, I very much question the wisdom of the system of degreeing preachers, though practiced by all of the leading white institutions of learning. Oh! <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve, as I have had occasion to remark before, we must learn to quit accepting customs as good and grand, simply because the white people have adopted them. They are but human and can err, even in a body as a race. Aside from my convictions as to the uselessness of a title in your case, my time is so much taken up with other duties that I would not have the time to instruct you. But let me impress this one fact upon you. Your ambition should sink deeper than merely to appear and be esteemed wise and learned. Degrees, mere outside appendages, would do you no good.”</p>
			<p>“Huh, miss,-you-are-young-yet. Our-race has-been-so-severely-criticised- that-it-has-developed-the-faculty-of-appearing. Our-folks will-forgive- you-for-not-being-up-to-white-folks,-but-a-man-that-can’t-put-up-a-bold- <i>front</i> has-no-forgiveness. The-word-now-is, ’Be-what you-please,-but- don’t-let-the-white-folks-know it.’ You-just-look-about-you-and-see-if- the-criticisms-of-the-white-people,-often-unjust,-are-not-developing-the- faculty-of-deception-and-whitewashing,-just-like-the-child-that-is- whipped-the-most-for-its-faults-learns-to-hide-them-far quicker-than-to- correct-them. No,-no,-Miss Wysong,-a-covering-will-do-for-me. Niggers can’t-pull-off-the-covering-and-look-at-my-filthy rags-of-knowledge- because-they-don’t-know enough;⁠—and-white-people-can’t,-because-I ain’t- going-to-let-them-get-close-enough-to peep-under-my-covering. I-agree- with-you that-it-is-bad-that-our-people-want-everything just-like-white- people. That-is-what-makes me-have-to-hustle-to-get-D.-D. And-if-I-don’t get-it-somehow-before-too-long,-my-people-will dump-me-just-like-them- blue-veiners-did.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! the blue veiners, then, are not the only colored people desiring to be like white people. The most of your people are pure blacks and they are trying to be like white people, too, I understand.”</p>
			<p>“Huh, of-course. That-is-what-makes-the blue-veiners-so-proud. They-see- that-they-are near-and-nearing-the-place-where-the-blacks are-almost- dying-to-get-to. Nowadays-you never-hear-of-two-coal-black-persons- marrying each-other. The-black-man-is-pushing-the black-woman-aside-to- grab-the-yellow-woman; and-the-black-woman is-pushing-the-black-man aside- to-grab-the-yellow-man. I-know-a-number-of-black-mothers-with-black- daughters that-have-sworn-they-will-poison-their-daughters-if-they- attempt-to-marry-black-men. Besides-don’t-black-women-with-short-hair-rob horses’-tails,-billy-goats-and-graveyards-to-get hairlike-that-of-white- folks. I-wish-a-sensible girl-like-you-would-join-my-church-and-stop white-folks-ideas-from-cropping-in-faster-than we-fellows-can-keep-up- with-them. They-have got-me-out-now-hunting-fora-D.-D.,-just-like white- folks,-when-neither-me-nor-them-know anymore-about-what-D.-D.-means- than-Sam Smith’s-old-mule.”</p>
			<p>“Seriously, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve, might I join your church? I feel that I owe my race an apology for having somewhat deserted them. Because their language was broken and their customs crude and queer, I, together with other members of my race, have not mingled with them as much as we should have done. I assure you that my failure to do so was not due to pride nor to color prejudice. It was due simply to a lack of similarity of tastes, ideals, habits, customs, manner of speech, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> I think that a great amount of what you class as color prejudice may be reduced to that, after all.”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-huh,-huh,-Miss-Wysong,-<i>you</i>-are-all right. I-have-been-watching- you-for-years. You-always-speak-to-us-blacks-politely-and never-snub-us. But-don’t-you-tell-me-about them-other-blue-veiners. I-knows-um,-I-know them-thar-now,-see-how-my-tongue-gits,-my tongue-gets-to-slippin’,-to- slipping-some-times. It-is-nothin’-but-plum-nigger-foolishness-to keep- me-cramped-down-to-all-this-grammar talk-I-am-doing. If-my-people-did- not-insist upon-me-using-language-just-like-white-people I-would-go- back-to-the-plain-nigger-dialect just-suited-to-a-big-mouth-and-stiff- tongue-like mine.”</p>
			<p>“You have failed to answer my question, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Nerve. May I join your church?”</p>
			<p>“Huh,-bless-God,-yes. My-people-are-black, yet,-as-I-have-made-plain,- they-like-yellow folks. You-are-not-exactly-yellow;⁠—you-are-a pretty- brown-skin,-a-mighty-pretty-brown-skin. I-really-think-what-makes-blue- veiners-so-aristocratic-is-that-we-blacks-like-them,-the-white folks- like-them,-and-they-like-themselves;⁠—leaving-nobody-to-like-us-blacks. If-we-ever-turn-to liking-black-faces-it-will-only-be-after-the whites- turn-that-way. The-whites-regulate-all of-our-tastes-even-to-telling-us- who-are-our greatest-men-among-us. We-just-won’t-acknowledge-a-man-is- great-until-the-whites-have done-so. Our-slave-mammies-had-no-thought from-morning-till-night,-year-in-and-year-out, except-the-thought-of- pleasing-master-and mistress. I-guess-that-is-how-doing-everything to-please-white-people-became-ingrained-in-our nature. You-will-know- more-about-this-when you-get-to-be-a-married-womanlike-I-am,-huh, huh.</p>
			<p>“Good day,-Miss-Wysong,-good day,-I-see you-are-restless-and-tired-of- an-old-man’s-gab. Remember-that-I-have-not-promised-you-that-I would-not- be-a-D.-D. My-plans-are-all-laid. Remember-you-are-to-join-my-church. Good day. I-did-not-promise-that-I-would-not-be-no D.-D.,-huh,-huh-huh.”</p>
			<p>Bowing and grinning and grunting, <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D. S., backed out of the door and out of the gate, and, hat in hand, went strutting proudly down the street, not forgetting that in walking, his feet should come up a little higher from the ground than do the feet of plain every day human beings. Poor deluded soul, contented to grasp with a death clutch at the <i>shadow</i> of Anglo-Saxon civilization. His brethren are many. In due time the whole city came out to view the first step of <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D. S., toward becoming <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Josiah Nerve, D. D.</p>
			<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
